Operating System Labs - Student 

Name:
Group:
1.	Create a working directory named 'lab' in your home directory.
Which command allows you to create a directory in your home folder?
Your answer: mkdir lab

2.	Move into this newly created directory.
What command do you use to navigate into a directory?
Your answer: cd lab

3.	 Create the following files: file1.txt, file2.txt, file3.txt, notes.md, data.csv.
How would you create multiple empty files at once?
Your answer: touch file{1..3}.txt notes.md data.csv

4.	Copy all .txt files into a folder named 'backup'.
How would you identify and copy only files with the .txt extension?
Your answer: mkdir backup && cp *.txt backup

5.	Rename the file file3.txt to final.txt.
Which command renames or moves a file?
Your answer: mv file3.txt final.txt

6.	Move notes.md into a new folder called docs/.
What command moves a file and how do you create the folder first?
Your answer: mkdir docs && mv notes.md docs

7.	 Delete the docs/ folder and the file data.csv.
What commands allow you to remove files and folders respectively?
Your answer: rm -rf docs && rm -f data.csv

8.	
• Use rm -i to confirm deletion before proceeding.
• Use cp -v, mv -i, or rm -v to observe detailed output.
• Use wildcards like *.txt or file* to match filenames.
• Use cp *.txt newlocation/ to copy multiple files at once.
• Use rm *.txt carefully to delete all .txt files.
Try each command and write down what it does.
Your answer:  
1. rm -i file.txt → asks for confirmation before deleting
2. cp -v file1.txt file2.txt -> -v verbose (show what’s happening)
   Outputs: 'file1.txt' -> 'file2.txt'
5. rm *.txt → deletes all .txt files (dangerous if careless)

Flag	Purpose				Why it’s useful
-v	Show actions			Transparency, debugging
-i	Ask before overwrite/delete	Safety

9.	 Create a file named test.txt.
What command do you use to create a new file?
Your answer: touch test.txt

10.	Delete the file test.txt.
How do you delete a file from the system?
Your answer: rm test.txt

11.	Try to recover the deleted file. Was it possible?
Explain what happens to a file when it's deleted using rm.
Your answer:  its deleted and cannot be recovered

12.	What option can you use to avoid accidental deletions when using rm?
Which option makes rm ask for confirmation before deleting?
Your answer: rm -I

13.	Create the following files: test1.txt, test2.txt, test1.csv, report.md.
What is the simplest way to create all these files in one command?
Your answer: touch test{1..2}.txt test1.csv report.md

14.	14. 6. Use these commands and describe the difference in results:
   ls test?.txt
   ls *.md
   ls test*.*
How do wildcards help you filter files in a directory?
Your answer: 
1. ls test?.txt (list all txt files that begin with a test and then followed by a letter)
2. ls *.md (list all md files)
3. test*.* (list all files that begin with test and then followed by any character and then with any extension (e.g. test1.md, test2.txt etc)


15.	 Open the manual for the cp command. Which option lets you copy directories?
What is the command to view the manual and which flag is needed to copy folders?
Your answer: 
1. man cp to see manual
2. cp -r to copy directories

16.	 Create a directory named 'lab'.
Which command creates a new folder?
Your answer: mkdir lab

17.	 Move all the created files into the lab folder.
How can you move multiple files at once into a folder?
Your answer: mv * lab

18.	Copy the entire 'lab' folder to a new folder named 'lab_final'.
How do you copy directories with all their contents?
Your answer: cp -r lab lab_final

